Impact of AI in health and medicine
 The advent of natural speech and the ability of an AI  computer to draw instantly on a large database of scenarios means the response to questions, decisions, or advice from a trainee can challenge in a way that humans cannot in health and medicineHealth monitoring:Wearable health trackers-like those from FitBit, Apple, Garmin, and others- monitor health rate and activity levels. They can send alerts to the user to get more exercise and can share this information with doctors.Technology applications and apps encourage healthier behavior in individuals and help with the proactive management of a healthy lifestyle.AI increases the ability for healthcare professionals to better understand the day-to-day patterns and needs of the people they care, for better feedback, guidance, and support.Medical imaging: Machine learning algorithms can process unimaginable amounts of information in the blink of an eye and provide more precision than humans in spotting even the smallest detail in medical imaging.  A few of them are Blackford, Zebra, Enlitic, Lunit.The company “Zebra Medical Vision” developed a new platform called profound, which analyzes all types of medical imaging reports that are able to find every sign of potential conditions such as osteoporosis, aortic aneurysms, and many more with a 90% accuracy rate.Digital consultation: For eg, the digital health firm #HealthTap developed “Dr. AI”, and apps like Babylon in the UK use AI to give medical consultations based on personal medical history and common medical knowledge. Users report their symptoms into the app, which uses speech recognition to compare against a database of illness and asks patients to specify symptoms to triage whether they should go to the ED, urgent care, or a primary care doctor.AI robot-assisted surgery: Robots have been used in medicine for more than 30 years. Surgical robots can either aid a human surgeon or execute operations by themselves. They’re also used in hospitals and labs for repetitive tasks, in rehabilitation, physical therapy, and in support of those with long-term conditions.      Health chatbots such as Babylon, Ada, and mostly close-ended communications.Machine learning is a type of AI that allows computers to make predictions without being explicitlyProvides formal conceptual Framework for input processing and decision making in diagnosis and managementObjective decision making with less varianceHigh speed and efficiencyUnlock the power of big data and gain insight into patients.Support evidence-based decision-making, improving quality, safety, and efficiency.Coordination care and faster communicationImprove patient experiences and outcomesDeliver value and reduce costsImprove health system performance and optimizationExamples of AI in healthcare and medicine#MICROSOFT: Predictive analysis in vision care#GOOGLE: clinical decision support in breast cancer diagnosis#IBM WATSON: precision medicine in population health managementActionable medical insights:  An ever-increasing amount of medical data are being digitized at all public and private healthcare institutions. However, by its very nature, this kind of data is messy and unstructured. Unlike other types of business data, where traditional statistical methods can be used for quick insights, patient data is not particularly amenable to simple modeling and analytics tools. For eg.- Enlitic, a San Francisco-based start-up, has a mission of mixing intelligence with empathy and leverage the power of AI in health and medicine for precisely generating.Therefore, a massive parallel effort to rationalize the legal and policy-making is needed to bring the full benefit of advancement in AI technologies into the healthcare space. As technologies and AI/ML enthusiasts, we can only hope for such a bright future where the power of this intelligence.Blackcoffer Insights 24: Shaffy Garg, Baba Farid college of management and technology  TAGSAdaappleBabylonblackfordFitBitGarminGooglehealthtapIBM WatsonMicrosoftqventusZebra Medical Vision Previous articleWhat patients like and dislike about telemedicine?Next articleThe future of Fintech AI & blockchain. Ajay Bidyarthy  RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.   Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.   Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future    MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSWhat are the key policies that will mitigate the impacts of... April 28, 2020  An app for updating the email id of the user and... July 8, 2022  How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application? February 13, 2021  CRM, Monday.com via Zapier to Power BI Dashboard July 29, 2023  Load more RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS Prediction Model for Online Casino  Payroll Analytics  How Data Analytics and AI are used to halt the COVID-19..